# Loopback Mediator

The **Loopback Mediator** moves messages from the in flow (request path)
to the out flow (response path). All the configuration included in the
in sequence that appears after the Loopback mediator is skipped.

!!! info

The messages that have already been passed from the In sequence to the
Out sequence cannot be moved to the Out sequence again via the Loopback
mediator.


  

!!! info

The Loopback mediator is a
[content-unaware](ESB-Mediators_119131045.html#ESBMediators-Content-awareness)
mediator.


  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Syntax](#LoopbackMediator-Syntax) \|
[Configuration](#LoopbackMediator-Configuration) \|
[Example](#LoopbackMediator-Example)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Syntax

The loopback token refers to a \< `         loopback        ` \>
element, which is used to skip the rest of the in flow and move the
message to the out flow.

``` java
    <loopback/>
```

### Configuration

As with other mediators, after adding the Loopback mediator to a
sequence, you can click its up and down arrows to move its location in
the sequence.

### Example

This example is a main sequence configuration with two [PayloadFactory
mediators](_PayloadFactory_Mediator_) . Assume you only want to use the
first factory but need to keep the second factory in the configuration
for future reference. The Loopback mediator is added after the first
[PayloadFactory mediator](_PayloadFactory_Mediator_) configuration to
skip the second [PayloadFactory mediator](_PayloadFactory_Mediator_)
configuration. This configuration will cause the message to be processed
with the first payload factory and then immediately move to the out
flow, skipping the second payload factory in the in flow.

``` java
    <definitions xmlns="http://ws.apache.org/ns/synapse">
      <sequence name="main">
        <in>
          <payloadFactory>
            <format>
              <m:messageBeforeLoopBack xmlns:m="http://services.samples">
                <m:messageBeforeLoopBackSymbol>
                  <m:symbolBeforeLoopBack>$1</m:symbolBeforeLoopBack>
                </m:messageBeforeLoopBackSymbol>
              </m:messageBeforeLoopBack>
            </format>
            <args>
              <arg xmlns:m0="http://services.samples"
                evaluator="xml"
                expression="//m0:symbol/text()"/>
              </args>
          </payloadFactory>
    
          <loopback/>
    
          <payloadFactory>
            <format>
              <m:messageAfterLoopBack xmlns:m="http://services.samples">
                <m:messageAfterLoopBackSymbol>
                  <m:symbolAfterLoopBack>$1</m:symbolAfterLoopBack>
                </m:messageAfterLoopBackSymbol>
              </m:messageAfterLoopBack>
            </format>
            <args>
              <arg xmlns:m0="http://services.samples"
                evaluator="xml"
                expression="//m0:symbolBeforeLoopBack/text()"/>
            </args>
          </payloadFactory>
        </in>
        <out>
          <send/>
        </out>
      </sequence>
    </definitions>Â 
```
